>> Jen Kramer: This next part that we're
going to work on is there's a very
specific set of instructions I need for
you to follow in order
to work with GitHub.
And so we're gonna work through
these steps one by one and
I've spelled them all out here for you.
So first of all, let's go ahead and
download the ZIP of the files for today.
So just as I've showed you over the last
couple of days, go ahead and download
the ZIP file and get it configured and
ready to look at on your desktop.
And what I'd like for you to do is we're
gonna start here at the beginning,
which is how we get our web pages online.
There are a lot of different
ways to get web pages online.
Typically, what you're going
to do is the following.
You're gonna need to purchase two things
and those of you out there online,
don't panic,
we're gonna do this all for free.
But typically, the way you get
a website online is the following.
One is you purchase the domain name.
One is you purchase web hosting.
You have to make these two
things talk to each other.
You have to wait 48 hours for
that talking to happen, so that the domain
name actually associates with the web
hosting and you can find it online and
then you use something called FTP to move
all of those files on up to the server.
When I used to teach this like 15
years ago, this was a 3-hour lecture,
[LAUGH] okay?
Because it was a lot of stuff and
a lot of moving parts.
To keep things simple, what we're going to
do is use something called GitHub pages.
So this involves signing up for
a GitHub account and
then there is a way that you can go ahead,
and post your information up on GitHub,
and it will show up as a website as well.
You don't need to purchase a domain name.
You don't need to purchase web hosting.
You can go ahead and get a very simple
site up relatively quickly, okay?
So we're gonna go ahead and
follow these instructions along the way.
So first of all and
we'll take sort of a little minute
in between each one of these.
So you guys on online who
are following along and
I think most of the people
here have an account.
But for those of you following along,
what we're gonna do is we're going
to first of all, sign up for GitHub.
So the way that you're gonna go about
doing that, so if you go to github.com,
you should see this screen
that looks just like this and
you'll be able to pick a username and
email and a password.
So go ahead and
fill out that form right now.
Click on the sign up for GitHub button,
if you do not have an account.
If you do have an account,
you can just go to the sign in button and
we're gonna go ahead and sign in.
>> Jen Kramer: And
you should see something like this.
Cool, once you've got that done,
we're on step two.
Go ahead and download the GitHub Desktop.
Now those of you who have
worked with GitHub before,
you may be accustomed to working
with GitHub on the command line.
That means that you have typically a black
screen with a little flashing cursor at
the bottom and you type in obscure little
commands to make magic happen, okay?
My experience is that working on
the command line just leads to tears,
especially when people have been
coding for four whole days.
So what we would prefer to do is we would
like you to work with GitHub Desktop,
which is gonna give you an interface.
It'll be much easier to work
with in this environment.
If you already know how to work
with GitHub, you wanna go ahead and
work on the command line.
Feel free to do so, but
I'm gonna be doing the GitHub Desktop.
So to do that, we're gonna go ahead and
go to githubdesktop.github.com.
Go ahead and open that up.
>> Jen Kramer: And you'll have a button
right here in the middle of the page.
Mine says, download for Mac OS,
because that's what I'm using.
Yours may say, download for
Windows if that's what you're using.
Only for the desktop.
Okay, so this is gonna be only for
the desktop.
If they'd pick the wrong operating system,
there should be a link underneath.
Go ahead and download this, and
get it installed on your computer.
If you already have it installed in
your computer, you can go ahead and
open it up
>> Jen Kramer: So
I'll give you a couple minutes to
go on ahead and download this.
Get it installed and get it open.